all right what's up guys back again with
another formulation review
glad to be joined here again by
formulation expert
xander yes it's good to be here this
time i am right and
this is actually a formulation review
and we're not going to do the podcast
again
so perfect all right well um basically
the theme for today
is programming uh how to formulate items
for
programming because basically i've just
been reflecting on
um the past one and a half years or so
of using supermemo and uh getting really
stuck into programming and uh
yeah this was like the first time i
decided to actually go back and
look at some of the uh good the bad and
the ugly
and actually most of them ugly as you
can see from the
especially from the templating um but
also in terms of the formulation
and basically what i've done is i've
decided to put the worst at the
beginning and then hopefully slowly
as we move through they should get
better and better towards the end none
of them are great
i'm skeptical of that yeah
as you should be my friend all right you
know what
enough babbling let's just get straight
into it so all right
um oh one more thing um
throughout this uh sort of formulation
review one of the things i'm going to
keep coming back to
is the notion that there are sort of two
main ways that an item can
contribute to your life and the first
one is by
uh saving you time by learning something
um it could make it so that you don't
need to go and type it into google
and uh find the definition of something
so you save like 30 seconds so there's
sort of like
a time saving aspect to items right and
then
on the other hand there's also another
aspect which is um the association
bonus which is harder to define harder
to quantify
but might be much more valuable and by
association bonus
essentially what i mean is by retaining
an item
and keeping it in your memory over time
you might be able to
combine it with something else in your
memory to generate a new idea
that could result in for example uh a
new scientific breakthrough
perhaps it gives you a startup idea and
you become a billionaire
that sort of thing or you know it
contributes to some creative goal would
you agree with those two
um sort of uh aspects
generally uh yeah i would just say i
would i would add like a sub point to
number two which is
an association isn't only a creative
thing
most understanding is a result
perhaps all understanding but i haven't
thought deeply enough about it
to ensure that but most of it is a
result of
combining prior knowledge with current
stuff right so
you can't the the thing about complex
concepts
is that they're built of many
sub-concepts that are much simpler
and oftentimes you're using prior
knowledge to build up your understanding
so
uh i'll just make the caveat that
association isn't only
creative new ideas it's often just
understanding something and if you don't
think that memory is required
to understand something complex
i won't make fun of you but i ask that
you think of it more thank you very much
all right well those are the two main
ways that i've sort of decided to split
uh sort of the value get from items into
today and this was basically
uh inspired by an article that was wrote
and it was actually an article on using
supermemo for programming
and it was an article he wrote i think
it's like back in the 90s or something
like that
and that's essentially what he does he
splits he decomposes the value from
items into these two things
you know the time you gain from not
having to look things up and the bonus
you get from associativity
and so you know what let's just jump
straight into the first item
and um this is
pretty much like a very good example of
one that maybe
[Music]
doesn't really fall into either of the
two categories so it almost immediately
breaks the uh
breaks the sort of framework that i laid
out at the beginning
so essentially this item on the question
it says dns stands for
and then close marker and the answer is
domain naming system
and so i don't know
this is the kind of item that i really
can't get very excited about at all
because
um it just seems like kind of trivia to
me
almost in the sense that knowing
that dns stands for domain naming system
it isn't super valuable and it's not
also it's also not really going to save
you a lot of time in terms of
um needing to look it up on google uh
those are my two initial impressions the
only reason i could see it
uh being sort of valuable and was just
talked about this before in a different
context
so uh let's say you're reading an
article
um about http and you're sort of
learning about you know how it works the
protocol or whatever
if you come across that word dns and
perhaps you don't
you don't have anything to link it to in
your memory you don't know what the
acronym
uh stands for you don't know what it
means uh
was has this concept of a decoding
failure penalty
so not having anything to relate dns to
in your prior knowledge
might cause you to sort of you almost
become tired reading that article
you start to feel like oh man i don't
really understand anything
so this is really scraping the bottom of
the barrel trying to
defend this item as having any value at
all but that is basically the only value
i could see it having is that
it wouldn't by knowing this item if you
come across dns in a future article
you wouldn't face the sort of decoding
failure penalty you wouldn't feel like
uh confused reading that article almost
if you know what i mean
yeah i i mean i struggle to believe that
simply remembering what it stands for
would make any significant difference
it's possible i guess but yeah i'm
skeptical of this
this kind of thing for for a few reasons
one like you say it's
this is the type of thing where it's
almost like when
you hear writers talk about how they you
know shine their shoes and clean their
house
to avoid writing yeah you know what i
mean i view this
as the item equivalent of that it's like
i don't want to make any items about the
truly
difficult stuff or the stuff that would
be actually interesting because that
would be hard
right and so i'll just i'll just pick
one that would be really easy to close
and i see i think most closes are that
people are looking for closes yeah words
that look like they can be closed
look at that i made a new i made a new
item yeah and it's like ah
great you made this new item that you
only made
to avoid making actually good items so
congratulations
but anyway i i do think this is that and
i also think this is a type of item
that's easy to make
if you don't actually understand what
the thing is so if you don't know
anything about dns
the odds that you'll get any value from
this item alone
is really low exactly but if you know a
lot about dns
then yeah i guess it makes sense to to
remember this
um that would be my that would be my
thought on it
yeah i i agree with you no i don't know
i just yeah go ahead go ahead oh going
to say yeah i agree with all of those
and i wanted to highlight one of the
things you brought out which was the
hunting for closables thing i really
like that
that concept because it's a very common
failure pattern that
you know i've observed myself doing
obviously a lot as you'll continue to
see
during this formulation and you also see
a lot of other people doing it
once you uh once you first start using
anki or supermemory and you realize that
you can
create flashcards very quickly using the
closed deletion thing you suddenly
close anything that can be closable um
which is often a mistake
yeah and you know you know what i think
that's a result of
people are implicitly making goals
sometimes explicitly
of making as many items as they can
but that's a silly goal the silly the
the actual
goal should be i want to understand as
many things as possible
right yeah i want to be able to do as
that should be the goal you should only
make an item because there's some value
to it
not because of some arbitrary thing oh i
should make
you know more items as many items as i
can if i make 30 items in one day that's
better than 15.
you know what i mean so it's i think
it's that kind of mindset that leads to
this
and it's also i just want to know this
is not all bad if this is like getting
the ball rolling for you and
sort of expanding expanding your
willingness to create
items about dns or just items in general
or whatever it is
i don't think that's bad and also just
to defend the other side of it
my my intuition is that people would say
well this item is going to be so low
cost
that why not do it you know what i mean
yeah and there could be some
some benefits like you say of you know
not
of avoiding a decoding failure penalty
as a result of this simple item so those
are some possible benefits
overall i don't think this is ideal
because it leaves the false impression
of
added understanding and utility so
anyway
all right i think we should move on to
the next one um
so this is an example of something that
i did a lot at the beginning when i was
just starting out
uh learning programming with space
repetition uh
so essentially the question side of the
card
gives me like a prompt and then the
answer i actually have to type in
what the line of code would be to delete
the first element of the list
and so in this example i think this is
from python so
see that's another mistake that i made
at the beginning is thinking that i'd
only ever use one programming language
and then not making it clear which one
uh actually
i was like referring to in the question
and that became kind of chaotic over
time but
um yeah i generally found these cards to
be
uh sometimes they're okay but most of
the time
typing in typing in these sorts of
answers that focus
more on like the syntax than the
conceptual side of things
they don't really tend to they don't
offer me much benefit beyond six months
after learning a programming language if
you know what i mean so
once you've been once you've been sort
of immersed using a programming language
to do your own projects for
six to twelve months something like this
is going to be very trivial to you
um and actually in fact i don't think
i've ever
really used this i think the answer is
like a dell
motorcycles um brackets zero or
something like that right to delete the
first index right right
uh i don't think i've actually ever used
uh that ability i've just never needed
to
delete uh like an element from a list
it's just
i i i've used python a bunch i've
literally just never needed to use that
um
function so that was another mistake as
well as a beginner
trying to encode everything that you
come across as an item
before you realize that something is
actually valuable and worth
retaining over across your entire life
like
i wonder if i wonder if this is going
too far zander but
do you think that when you're making
items um you should be thinking
uh in terms of your entire lifetime like
is this thing going to be useful to me
because i think if i'd thought that when
i was making this
item i i probably wouldn't have made it
uh
well i think it's impossible to think
that way actually it like
if you had asked me at 18 years old
what's gonna happen to you in the next
four years
there is zero chance that i would have
guessed almost any of it right
and so i just don't think that
that's a feasible thing to do so things
happen in life that are very
what if someone what if someone went
back in time and told you that you were
going to be running the
premier world's premier srs podcast
i would have believed that i would have
believed that i would have i would have
even been able to intuit
that it would have been with my great
british friend james who i hadn't even
met yet
i would have felt that i would have felt
the energy from the universe
and i would have been able to predict
that that's how powerful this is
this podcast transcends space and time
it's like in that movie interstellar
when he falls into that thing and
everything is always happening
this podcast is always happening from
the beginning of the universe this
podcast is going oh peaceful
anyway so yeah i think uh the thing that
i think about these kind of items
is okay let's say that you
were actually coding something that you
were trying to make and you go oh
i need to delete an item from that list
if you googled
python delete item from list you could
find that
right you could find it easily and then
you if you use that sufficiently often
it's going to be
no it's going to be essentially no time
and so
my primary concern with coding items is
things that i
found i tried to do that took me longer
than i thought they should have
and so it took me longer than i expected
to find
some method that i needed to do a
particular thing and so i say okay
what is the method to do this or what
approach
could i take to do this or how did i
solve this bug
what thought what realization led me to
be able to solve this bug
you know what i mean those are the kinds
of things that i'm interested in so i
can actually save time
and also i'll point out another thing
about this item it's actually too
specific there's a more general
principle which is
if you want to delete an item from a
list you just pass the list and you
or you get the list and then you pass
the um you pass the index of the of the
key you want to delete
so i think there's a more general item
to be made there like
how do you delete an item from a list in
python the answer is
delete uh list and then key you know
what i mean so
that's the or index and so that's the i
think that's the more general idea at
play there of course you can have a
particular example of it maybe in
parentheses or something if that helps
but those are the two problems i see
with that and yeah when you're a
beginner programming
or beginner at anything you don't know
what's useful
actually and so it you often tend to
be a little bit overzealous and make too
many items and so one of the things
that people should do is remain flexible
if something
appears boring or no longer useful just
delete it it doesn't matter like
everybody gets caught up and like oh i
already made this item it's worth it to
keep it yeah
but it's not doesn't matter what's more
worth it is actually enjoying
when you're doing your reviews and if
you're bored or if you're a little bit
averse to some subset of your items
over time that's going to erode your
energy for
the whole review itself and i don't
think that's worth it so just delete it
if you discover later on that it's not
worth it yeah yeah you've definitely got
to get into that mindset of uh
being willing to delete things early
like if you do get into that mindset
then
experimentation with new type types of
items and
items that you're not sure will be good
can become very low cost
so that once you create an environment
or a learning sort of
situation where uh you're experimenting
i'm not like risking putting in like six
months of effort
wasted effort potentially that's a very
good thing because
uh it means that you know those
experiments that
do turn out to be successful you can
continue doing and continue to gain from
over time
and those ones that fail you can just
you know
uh delete those items you might have
only spent like 30 seconds on them
or whatever so far so it's not that much
lost
in terms of time right and also
what i mentioned about taking items from
your own coding process
that the memories for that work much
better
because they're actually connected to
something that you use whereas i doubt
you're a motorcycle enthusiast
building apps about motorcycles yeah
exactly what i mean yeah
that is a big problem if these uh really
contrived
exercises when you're a beginner you can
see that this is from python crash
course chapter two you know it's one of
these beginner articles super contrived
boring problems uh nothing really to get
you interested
if you did what zander is saying right
now you take uh examples from your own
code that's going to be much more
meaning for you it's connected to your
episodic memories it's already
integrated into prior knowledge so
yeah exactly it's so much better and i
i've made some of those items i don't
exactly know how many but
they work perfectly for me very nice
all right moving on yeah it's another
terrible one
this is especially bad because you know
i was saying before that
sort of the value of that item might
expire after six months because you'd be
familiar with
uh the most common operations in that
programming language
this is the kind of item that would be
valuable for like
two hours if you use html at all
uh you know especially given that the
image
i mean that just in case no one uh has
used html before
the image tag is literally just like
open bracket
img close bracket so it's like it's
already semantic it's already supposed
to be
uh it literally is uh html is a semantic
marketing
markup language so it's like it's been
made for you to
easily sort of be able to read it and
understand it to a certain extent so
yeah this is like the most there's like
a perfect example of just a completely
useless
item i doubt it was very costly um
that's the only probably good thing that
could be said of it
but yeah well i will say also
this item actually unless you have other
items
for this i don't know if you do or not
but it actually has no use because
just knowing that the image tag is how
you make an image i'll ask you now maybe
you know this offhand because you've
learned it already
do you know how to actually how do you
determine what image is shown
in that image image check i think it's
the source right the source attribute
yeah so the source attribute so without
the without knowing that piece of
information you can't actually can't
make any use of the
of the image tag and so of course this
item would still be good if you had
other items about the image tag and what
attributes it accepts and all that stuff
but
yeah i mean it's already very semantic
and if you use html with any regularity
at all
uh you're gonna know like it would be i
think for the rest of my life
i'll i'll remember how to put an image
into html even if i never wrote any more
html because exactly
it's so ingrained in me it would be
impossible to get rid of it right
but also it's so low cost
and it actually would have value if you
were trying to
uh you know learn html so in the
beginning it's probably not a bad item
and then
once you actually start writing html
just give it a forgetting index of like
20 and check it a few years into the
future
and then it'll be almost no cost
yes i completely agree all right let's
move on
and i will say that we're starting to
get into the ones that i feel a little
bit more confident confident about
these ones i feel are more useful
because they tackle more of the
conceptual side of programming
they start getting into um
perhaps even more of the sort of
computer science side of things less of
the practical and more of the conceptual
which uh i've tended to find to be
like a little bit more useful so for
example this one the question is in the
early days of high-level programming
languages only data or
process abstraction was included and the
answer is process abstraction and the
reason i like
this is because it links it doesn't
ask you directly about the history of
programming languages but
um by answering it i don't know it just
feels like it's
uh very much integrated into my
understanding of
you know the history of programming
languages where initially people
packaged up
code to be reused into functions so you
had process
abstraction and then over time you had
the development of
object oriented programming languages
and stuff like that
which were more about packaging up into
data plus process
process abstraction so you started
having data abstraction
on top of process abstraction if that
makes sense but um
yeah i like this one more it sort of
gives you a sense of the development of
things
over time and it's a little bit more
conceptual
yeah i mean it's hard because most of
the interesting stuff you said there was
actually not within the item it was the
implications of it right right and so
i would hope that you have and again
this is one of the problems with
like reviewing other people's items it
would be like if you're a personal
trainer and somebody
you know sent you one meal a year that
they ate yeah and they said
do you think i'm doing good on my diet
and it's like well come on dude i barely
i barely know anything
like it's ridiculous it would be
impossible to analyze
the the fullness of the quality of an
item if
you only saw one so anyway that's that's
a problem with this
but yeah i hope you have items about the
implications of that
and if you do i think because of the way
this is phrased
it probably is good although i
i am a little bit skeptical like in the
early history of high level programming
languages so you would need to know
one when is the early history right and
then you would need to know what
high-level programming languages are
being referred to
right and then you would need to know
what what is data here in this sense
and then what is process here in this
sense and then what is abstraction here
in this sense
and then once you know all those things
how long did it take
to go from only process abstraction to
data abstraction as well
what did that look like what was an
instantiation of that you know what were
some key insights
that led to that what's the utility of
doing that what were some limitations of
only having process abstractions
in the early on you know in the early
history of programming languages
these are the interesting things about
this stuff not
like what it was it's what it means what
it implies
what it adds what it changes these these
things
the that's the interesting piece of all
this stuff so that's my concern about
these items
or this item in particular and obviously
i can't make that judgment because i
don't know
the the full collection yeah yeah i mean
i definitely feel like i have
maybe not all of those that you
mentioned and i'll probably end up
coming back to this podcast just so i
can listen to this again and like
make sure i do add in more because this
is actually something that really
interests me like the way
uh you know we've decided to structure
programming languages over time
it is interesting and like you said the
really important part is
why we decided to do those things why
those things became popular and so on
um right and so i will say this like
the the uh you're not necessarily going
to be able to
add all of those things in um
at once like you put you probably
wouldn't be able to make
all of those items on the same day uh
relating to this
but it's perfectly possible to do that
incrementally over time like as you
come back to this item and you think
about okay yeah
what are like the limitations of only
having
process abstraction what does data
abstraction give me
and you know has it been successful are
people more productive now that they're
able to use like
data and process abstraction at the same
time and so on
right right yeah exactly and
yeah it's uh some stuff just needs to
germinate like you just need to think of
on things for a long time it's like when
you're coding
it's almost impossible to land on the
perfect implementation of something
the first go yeah you have to implement
it poorly
and then wait for the project to build
and
complexify and add other things onto it
and then you go oh this way i did it
was actually more original rigid than i
anticipated
there was more coupling than i thought
there was this kind of thing i would
like to be able to do this instead of
that
and then you go back and change it right
so i think your knowledge is the same as
that and
some things are compressible in terms of
learning time like if you just spent a
bunch of hours in one day you could
probably learn it
but some things the hours have to be
spent
over time otherwise it doesn't seem to
work or something
and uh i don't really know how to
explain that i don't know what the rules
are
for that in terms of what falls into one
bucket or the other but there is a lot
of things there are a lot of things that
have to
wait some time and process in the mind
and just just
go with that that's fine it's totally
okay it's what's supposed to happen
you're supposed to change these items
over time
you're supposed to delete the ones that
are no longer useful you're supposed to
add the new ones that are related to the
old ones
once you realize further connections or
deeper understanding so this is what's
supposed to happen
this is not an exception it's the rule
indeed
okay let's go into the next one this is
one i quite like
it uh it's basically
describing two very common operations
that you would
do over like a list or a collection of
items and so the first one is called a
map
operation which is basically applying a
function
to every item in the list and creating a
new list out of those
items and then the reduce which takes
all of the items in the list and sort of
combines them somehow into
uh one value uh and so yeah this is like
a really good visual representation
of actually what's going on it made it
very intuitive to me and
one of the great things about map and
reduce is that
um they're kind of like programming
language in variants
i i've used like maybe five programming
languages at this point
every single one of them has an
implementation of the map and reduce
functions because
they're just like really primitive
functions that
they come in handy um uh a whole lot so
yeah it's very abstract exactly yeah
they're really good to learn you can do
almost anything with a map or reduce
right like it's it's really surprising
how much stuff you can do
and people people are too rigid with
when they're willing to move to a
collection or an array on a list
or a list because you could do a lot of
stuff unanticipated stuff with
with map and reduce and and similar
functions so yeah
it's definitely this is a really good
item actually and i like the way it's
presented
because like it's really
it's really integrated like it's really
intuitive
i i do wonder like do you have any other
items related to this
um i must do because like
yeah all of those sort of map reduce
operations all of the like
functional tools that seem to come like
functional programming it seems to have
become quite popular over the past
i don't know how many years i've only
been programming for like a year and a
half but it seems to be all the rage now
all of the
like big languages javascript python
they all have
like uh functional programming aspects
to them c-sharp as well
and so all of these sort of operations
are getting added in
and yeah i must have a bunch of other
stuff about um
functional programming and map and
reduce as well right
yeah and i do you have probably i would
have one item where
the the things on the right are blanked
out at once
because sort of when you see
i don't know i feel like you you might
get some interference between map and
reduce so you might want to
recall them at the same time and i know
that that seems to go against the
minimum
information principle that's fine i mean
there's some exceptions that i'm willing
to make
but yeah i'd be curious about trying
like covering up
doing an occlusion with both of the
components on the right side
and then both of the components on the
left side and then both of the labels
and then just seeing how that that works
just having those three separate
items in addition to this one and i
assume there's another one where map is
blanked out as well so
yeah that that's a very interesting item
and i think um more things should be
done this way
i've i have written a note on this
but i don't i don't i didn't flesh it
out enough
but roughly don't try to spot when
you're trying to do the job of images
with words
and sometimes people do that and so
there are oftentimes where something is
easy to easier to explain or understand
if you had an image
like this but people would try to use
words so if you can find an image
that resonates with you and it makes
sense to you much better to do that
than uh than to use words very true
all right let's go on to the next one
which is
it's similar in the sense that it tries
to aim at something more conceptual but
i'm a little bit worried that the
formulation wasn't uh
perfect especially in terms of uh
perhaps the length of the answer but
basically what it's asking is
what is the value of an iterator in
terms of abstraction and iterators
uh the kind of like the underly the
thing underlying
many of uh sort of the collection data
structures in
many programming languages like i know
python has implementations of iterators
like c-sharp does as well and so
again it's like one of those programming
language invariant things the
the knowledge from this as long as it's
encoded well
which perhaps it it wasn't but um uh as
long as it's encoded well
it it carries over it transfers across
all of the programming languages that
you'll
need to know um like over your life
which is going to be a lot i'll say this
like i was really surprised when i when
i came into
learning programming i sort of thought
of it more as like a
uh almost like you were learning like a
human language and it would be
similar in difficulty it'd be something
that you dedicate uh
a lengthy period of time to just
studying one and that just hasn't been
my experience with programming language
it's like if you want to do anything
nowadays it feels like you
need to know at least two and then like
uh if you have a lot of different
projects that you want to
work on you're not gonna you're not
gonna necessarily be able to use the one
that you're
that's your favorite you might need to
be sort of pragmatic and switch it up
and stuff like that you might literally
not have a choice so
i feel like that has become more and
more common so looking for that
generally applicable knowledge that you
can apply to many different programming
languages is really good so
uh yeah i think that was a good part how
do you feel about
especially the answer it feels like a
little bit too long to me
[Music]
yeah i mean even if you wanted to keep
the same information conceptually in the
answer
there's a there's probably some ways to
rephrase it
that would be simpler like instead of
saying allows a user to traverse you
could say allows traversal
or something like that and just shorten
it up that way there's some other
shortenings you can make
to just just make it a little bit a
little bit tighter but
i'd be curious what associations when
you see this what does it make you think
of what are the
what are the uh implications of this um
i think it's like
the separation of uh the algorithm from
the underlying data structure that's the
really important part it's like
uh i guess it's quite common in
especially in object-oriented
programming languages to have like an
interface
and then you sort of forget about the
underlying implementation of the data
structure
and you just uh call the methods on the
interface which
sort of make up the algorithm part of
things that's the part that you sort of
know more about and then it operates the
same way across
the data structure so to give a more of
a concrete example this is getting a
little bit
uh deep in the weeds perhaps but like if
you had
a list um data structure and an array
data structure that
they're both different data structures
but the the iterator and the way you
iterate over a list in an array it's
basically the same when you're using a
higher
higher level programming language like c
sharp um
so that that's like part of it just the
separation between
algorithm and data structure i guess
that that's the part that interests me
and also it's like it's not only that uh
not only applicable to um
like the programming language itself
it's also like databases as well like
the cursor
i don't know i guess you must have heard
of that before like the cursor
that you use to traverse the rows in a
database is the same
um concept as an iterator over a list
and so it's like
yeah it sort of integrates things in an
interesting way so i
i do feel like it's worthwhile
do you have an item for that analogy
like what is the database equivalent
yeah of the iterator
yeah okay so that's that's useful um
yeah okay so there's a couple you have
you have to know that when you think of
internal structure you're not actually
referring to the shape of the data
itself you mean like a data structure
so you don't actually mean like the
fields in a table for example
you just mean the way that database
tables are structured this kind of thing
so it's referring to a data structure so
that's that's useful to know and some
people would
would probably have some ambiguity there
of course you probably don't because
this is the correct use
of of the word structure as far as i can
observe
but yeah i would probably just
i would probably add some more items
about the implications and the value of
that and particular components of the
utility of it
so um or i would rephrase the question
maybe a little bit like from an abstract
perspective what is the value of an
iterator or
what does an iterator allow you to do
because really it's not even talking
about the value right so
this is just explaining what it allows
you to do the value would be
in my in my intuition would be more
describing the benefits
of being able to traverse a container
and all of its elements right and so
that would be that would be my intuition
there
and then if you were to keep this item i
would probably rephrase it too
um because a lot of it is like over
explaining so access
every element of a container without
knowing its internal structure so i
would probably say
um allows acts or allows traversal
traversal of every element of a
container without knowing its internal
structure or something like this just
remove a bunch of the words so that it
gets more quickly to
to what matters but overall i think it's
a reasonable item
as long as there's a bunch of other
supporting items about
the actual benefits and the implications
and
analogous stuff that kind of thing nice
yeah i think that's uh that's good
feedback
all right here we go the final one again
i think the
uh the the formulation the
implementation
uh of uh how i
wrote the item probably wasn't the best
again it feels like a little bit long
and i don't like the fact that i
uh explicitly said cs analogy i feel
like that
uh it almost cheapens the analogy in a
little bit it's uh it's not as nice as
um
almost just leaving that out and seeing
if i could
derive the analogy just by itself if you
know what i mean
but i do like the attempt again to go
for something more
conceptual and this time not just in
terms of
uh making it applicable to many
different programming languages or
other things within programming in
general
this one tries to go beyond and it tries
to link
the idea of an interpreter to dna so
to biological systems um which i really
like because then it gives you the sense
that
uh computation is something universal
all uh organisms do
you know i don't know do you get what i
mean it's trying to give something
uh very abstract and um
applicable almost so is is this
essentially trying to analogize
rna and ribosomes with an interpreter is
that
is that the analysis yeah yeah so i
would probably phrase it more directly
like that
uh like what is the uh
what is it i mean you could even keep
the computer science analogy thing like
what is a
what is a computer science analogy for
you know rna and ribosomes or whatever
yeah
that or what aspect of dna is
encoded in rna and ribosomes or whatever
it is
so i i would probably phrase it like
that in general i think
these type of analogy items are great i
just
i don't know i i don't i often don't
like items where
there's a bunch of words after the
clothes oh yeah because
most of those are not remembered and
also you have to read to the end in
order for it to make sense
and they tend to be much less useful in
my view there was something i think
possibly the reason i left it in there
there was something very interesting to
me that
the notion that the interpreter like
that the dna is the language and it
encodes its own interpreter as well that
was
i think it was something like i didn't
know exactly how to
express it but it gave me a feeling that
you know
dna was uh i i don't know all that much
about
turing machines but i think uh von
neumann came up with this idea of the
uh universal constructor perhaps
or something like that something that's
able to
uh generate itself almost i i don't know
exactly how to explain it but
more more uh more items will be
necessary to uh
dig out the uh the true value of this
sort of idea but um
well one thing you don't have to make an
item out
out of is who invented that because von
neumann invented almost everything
so there you go but you know what's
what's
what's interesting about most of these
things to me
is that the interesting piece of it is
not in there
it's the stuff that you think of
afterwards suppose i said something
completely silly to you like slow is
smooth and smooth is fast right suppose
i said that to you
that phrase actually has no value in and
of itself
it's what it makes you think of it's how
it it's how it affects you right
it you would have to in order to encode
that phrase
if you're trying to remember the the
valuable part you'd have to
remember what it makes you think of
right right exactly you know what i mean
i know exactly what you mean the the the
item is almost
it's very difficult to understand an
item without the context and the context
is the entirety of that person's prior
knowledge so it's like
it's very difficult to understand it's
almost you know the
uh analogy was mixed between
he comes up with this concept of learn
trippy and so
just to give a very very quick rundown
because this uh
this metaphor that he makes is like one
of the most just
bamboozling ones i don't know really
well
okay so this is concept of shannon uh
shannon entropy or whatever or
um yeah it's from information theory and
it's like
how do you measure the amount of
information in a signal
right and basically the idea is that
with
shannon entropy you can measure the
amount of information in the signal
objectively the amount of information is
the same to me
and zander it doesn't depend on our
prior knowledge or
our interpretation of the signal really
at all the differences with waz's learn
trippy is that
it sort of takes into account all your
prior knowledge so while
me and xander might both measure the uh
shannon entropy of the signal is exactly
the same
the lunch repeat would be very different
because it uh it's based on like how it
interacts with our prior knowledge for
example
if the semantic distance between you
know my prior knowledge and that
information is very far
i might not find it as interesting as
xander would because he has
you know the requisite prior knowledge
to understand it
um and so that's the difficulty that's
the whole
problem with um trying to review items
and trying to
look at other people's items is that if
you don't have all of that context
uh you know something very different is
going on inside
the person who made that item's mind um
compared to yours
yeah yeah i i definitely agree with all
that
but it actually wasn't wasn't precisely
what i was referring to i was referring
to more of
in general with most items
especially if they're conceptual i think
the interesting piece is what's
thought of afterwards what it makes you
think of like i've been saying
throughout the entire conversation
what are the implications of that what
does it mean
how is the world different before that
what what would be the downside if you
didn't have that
or if things were different what's
another analogy you could make
or or things like this it's implications
it's interpretation
it's extra thought because most times
people will say like people will explain
something and then they'll say so
basically and then they'll say something
else
that's an implication of that or a
simpler way to explain it
or an analogy or something else and
those are the interesting pieces
the downside is almost nobody of all the
items i've observed and
i've observed probably more items that
are not my own than most people
of all of the items i have observed most
people do not
encode the interesting parts of
information they encode the most
the most basic parts that are within the
text
the most interesting parts of
information given the the utility of
prior knowledge
is not what's written it's what's
thought of after you read it
that's the utility that's where the
interesting piece is
and so i'm more inclined to to write
those kinds of items and give advice to
people to write those kinds of items
than i am to say here's how to take a
piece of text
and turn it this information into a set
of items i think that's very
i i apologize for comparing myself to
bobby fischer in advance
because i'm i'm i'm not i'm not
bobby fisher i'm not saying that i am
and i
as at least in his later years i
certainly would hope i'm not
right and but there is a video clip of
bobby fischer on a private jet i don't
know what he's doing
but someone's trying to interview him
about chess and all this and he keeps
wanting to go back to
fisher random fisher random is this idea
as far as i understand it of like
rearranging the back line of of pieces
on the
on the board so it's not like it's not
rook and then knight and whatever else
like you rearrange it i don't exactly
know the rules but
anyway fischer random is just like a
little bit of variation and fun
in the game of chess so that you can't
you can't memorize like openings and
stuff because it doesn't make sense
they no longer apply so it's based on
pure reasoning ability
about chess and so that's why he found
it more interesting and right now i feel
like
i'm trying to say no no i wouldn't like
to talk about this i would like to talk
about something more interesting because
the most boring piece of this to me is
reading some text and encoding that in
items like
to me that's very clear how to do that
and to be honest
i believe that most people know how to
do that really well but what people can
feel is that even though they can do
that well they're still not capturing
the understanding
and the feeling that they would like to
capture and that's because of this
crucial point that's being missed
which is that most of the value when you
learn something that is more conceptual
is not directly encoded in what's
written it's what you think of after you
read it
so to make a good item requires an act
of
creativity would you say
yeah i mean but you don't even have to
try to be creative your brain will do
this
automatically like i've mentioned
examples of quotes before right when you
like a quote
you have to say more words than the
quote
to describe why you like it you have to
otherwise it doesn't make sense
so like oh i've given this example
before i don't remember if it was on a
podcast or what
but there's this naseem to lab quote i
know you're his biggest fan
he says he says
fan club right here that's right dude
we're the biggest naseem celeb fans he's
the best guy right
the nicest guy definitely not a bully
what a guy he is
anyway he has this quote
uh if you see fraud and do not say fraud
you are a fraud
right and so you think of that quote
and if i say that quote to you
it has no value unless you think of
something
so you're watching someone and whatever
some fraud gets exposed
and someone didn't point it out
ordinarily people would go
oh well they didn't do the fraud but if
they knew about it and they didn't point
it out
they're a fraud too and then if you're
in a situation yourself
where you see fraud you go oh my god i
can't let this happen i'm part of this
i'm letting this go on it actually
changes your moral framework
and so the interesting piece of things
is not
the thing itself it's what is thought of
and the delusion
that people fall prey to or maybe it's
an illusion
i haven't quite put a fine point on it
yet but
the problem is people assume that their
interpretation of things will always be
the same
so because i think of that when i hear
that quote my assumption is
i will always think of that when i hear
that quote right and so it's fine
first of all that's not true like you
think of way different stuff over time
depending on how your knowledge changes
and you might have a creative
association
because you were learning something
related at the same time or whatever
and also you want to you want to have
the association go both ways
so you don't want to just think of think
of that quote when you see fraud
you want to think of fraud when or think
of that quote when you see things that
are related or
think of that quote when you when you
think about
something like snitching or whatever
things like this and so
you know that's the value of it to me
it's it's making items about the
interpretation and the
and the thoughts that you have and the
ideas you have the associations
of reading things that's the interesting
piece of this game
not normal stuff because that's very
boring i think
yeah i think i agree with you mostly but
there is one thing that i think
uh maybe it's worth discussing it's like
um perhaps people are
uh they feel more confident just closing
the original
quote because that thing is immutable
the person said that thing
it's not going to change over time you
can feel safe almost
uh closing it your interpretation of
that
of the underlying thing could change
over time by encoding
you know what you believe initially as
an item
uh you might actually end up changing
your interpretation and then
perhaps having to change that close or
whatever do you think there's
you know is that is that an issue that
you're that your interpretation of the
text could change over the time
over time therefore uh you know is it a
risk or whatever is it a waste of time
to
you know sort of lock yourself into that
view uh
do you know what i mean yeah i know i
definitely know what you mean i just
don't think
you the point is not to write items
about
like the tiny things that you believe
about it in such a way that
you're locking yourself in although that
there can be some value in that
it's like it's more about
what would what would naseem tele advise
you to do in such a type of situation
right or what would naseem him himself
do
in such a situation or what is a naseem
taleb quote
that would uh make our decision making
easier in this particular situation or
things like this
those are the interesting things that i
like about it
and yeah i mean you could write some
stuff down about your interpretation
that locks you in
and that wouldn't be ideal but again
it's not like if you have an item
you're stuck that way of thinking
forever like you're gonna change no
matter what
and having information in your brain
allows you to
make more informed decisions and and
change your beliefs
in a really significant way hopefully in
a positive direction
so i i'm not too concerned about the the
risk of that yeah
i'd be really interested to like ask was
like what he thinks about that like
even it might even be the case that
actually remembering
your interpretation even immediately
after reading the quote would make it
easier
to change your opinion over time because
you'd be able to retrieve that you'd had
that
interpretation then like criticize it
almost in your mind
why it was wrong or why it needs to be
adjusted and then
you could then add the adjustment into
your collection
so yeah actually that's that's really
interesting yeah i wonder which
i wonder which way is better and
i bet it would i bet it would be what
you're suggesting actually
i bet that would be better interesting
well uh i hope so i mean i i hope i'm
not giving advice that would
you know waste people's time like it's
certainly possible that
i'm going down the wrong path here which
is why in the past not so much recently
just because
i no longer like to talk about items in
a general
sense like i used to in the discord
context i used to go into the
formulation
lab channel and give advice but most of
the time
people don't understand what it is
they're asking like
and they don't understand what it is
you're saying in response
again that is not an insult to anybody
it took me five or six years
to to get even a close to good
at this skill so it's not an insult to
anybody i'm an idiot regarding this
stuff as well
but yeah i'm no longer interested in
this in the general sense
so i i no longer talk to people about it
that much
but when i used to a lot people would
treat me like i know the definitive
answer
i don't there is no definitive answer to
this it's so personal
and it's so based on your prior
knowledge and your interests
and the particular context in which you
hope to employ the information
and your creative workflow and the field
you're in
and these kinds of things and um it's
also based on how much knowledge you
have about that particular thing and
how it's going to change over time so
there's so much about this that is
that is flexible and personalized so
none of this
advice is like all or nothing it's just
some
some food for thought and to me i will i
will stand firm at least for now
that the most interesting part of this
is not encoding what's in the text it's
encoding what you think
about what you've learned very nice all
right well this was a lot of fun
oh i i really got a lot of this
fantastic the session i hope people
enjoyed it and actually
i have an idea for perhaps a future
video or a series of videos
we could do almost like a reformulation
review perhaps even taking some of the
ones that we talked about today and
actually i could um perhaps even share
my screen and we could
go through like reformulating them or
you know trying to come up with
uh these sort of creative connections
the ones that are
really valuable like you said so yeah
yeah i would be really interested in
that and also
if somebody hears this and they want to
just talk to me or you or both of us
in private about their items like
i would be interested in having a chat
with this about this if
if you're not stuck in like i have this
item how do i rephrase it that's
that's the most boring part of what you
could ask
i'm i'm not particularly concerned about
that if you're willing to have a
more high-level conversation i would
actually love to talk about this just
just uh message me and and we can have a
chat or
maybe james can join us as well yeah if
you happen to hear this and you want to
talk about that
just let me know and we can we can
schedule this is such a niche
area that we're kind of dying for more
people to talk to
so yeah if you're interested
and uh yeah yeah thanks for watching and
we'll see you in the next one see ya